# Generate cell draws and summary rasters from INLA model

Use INLA posteriors to predict out across a grid

## Usage

``` r
generate_cell_draws_and_summarize(
  inla_model,
  inla_mesh,
  n_samples,
  id_raster,
  covariates,
  inverse_link_function,
  nugget_in_predict = TRUE,
  admin_boundaries = NULL,
  ui_width = 0.95,
  verbose = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- inla_model:

  Output from
  [`fit_inla_model()`](https://henryspatialanalysis.github.io/mbg/reference/fit_inla_model.md)

- inla_mesh:

  An SPDE mesh used to define the spatial integration points of the INLA
  geostatistical model. Typically created using
  [`INLA::inla.mesh.2d()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/INLA/man/inla.mesh.2d.html)
  or a similar function.

- n_samples:

  (numeric) Number of posterior predictive samples to draw.

- id_raster:

  ([terra::SpatRaster](https://rspatial.github.io/terra/reference/SpatRaster-class.html))
  raster showing all cell locations where predictions should be taken.

- covariates:

  (list) Named list of all covariate effects included in the model,
  typically generated by
  [`load_covariates()`](https://henryspatialanalysis.github.io/mbg/reference/load_covariates.md).

- inverse_link_function:

  (character) If a link function was used in the INLA model, name of the
  R function to transform the predictive draws from link space to
  natural space. For example, in a logit-linked binomial model, pass
  'plogis' (as a string is fine) to invert-logit the predictive draws.

- nugget_in_predict:

  (`logical(1)`, default TRUE) Should the nugget term be used as an IID
  noise term applied to each pixel-draw?

- admin_boundaries:

  ([sf](https://r-spatial.github.io/sf/reference/sf.html) object,
  default NULL) The same admin boundaries used to create the admin-level
  effect, if one was defined in the model. Only used if an admin-level
  effect was defined in the model.

- ui_width:

  (numeric, default 0.95) Size of the uncertainty interval width when
  calculating the upper and lower summary rasters

- verbose:

  (`logical(1)`, default TRUE) Log progress for draw generation?

## Value

Named list containing at least the following items:

- "parameter_draws": posterior samples generated from
  [`INLA::inla.posterior.sample()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/INLA/man/posterior.sample.html)

- "cell_draws": A matrix of grid cell draws. Each row represents a
  non-NA pixel in the `id_raster`, in the same order that would be
  pulled by
  [`terra::values()`](https://rspatial.github.io/terra/reference/values.html),
  and each column represents a different posterior draw.

- "cell_pred_mean": Mean predictive estimate by grid cell, formatted as
  a terra SpatRaster

- "cell_pred_lower": Lower bound of (X%) uncertainty interval, formatted
  as a terra SpatRaster

- "cell_pred_upper": Upper bound of (X%) uncertainty interval, formatted
  as a terra SpatRaster

## Details

Based on a fitted INLA model, the survey area defined in an ID raster,
and a set of covariates, generate predictive grid cell draws and summary
rasters across a study area.
