# Prepare data stack for INLA

Prepare data stack for INLA

## Usage

``` r
prepare_inla_data_stack(
  input_data,
  id_raster,
  covariates,
  use_covariates = TRUE,
  covariates_sum_to_one = FALSE,
  family = "binomial",
  use_spde = TRUE,
  spde_range_pc_prior = list(threshold = 0.1, prob_below = 0.05),
  spde_sigma_pc_prior = list(threshold = 3, prob_above = 0.05),
  spde_integrate_to_zero = TRUE,
  mesh_max_edge = c(0.2, 5),
  mesh_cutoff = 0.04,
  use_nugget = TRUE,
  nugget_pc_prior = list(threshold = 3, prob_above = 0.05),
  use_admin_effect = FALSE,
  admin_boundaries = NULL,
  admin_pc_prior = list(threshold = 3, prob_above = 0.05)
)
```

## Arguments

- input_data:

  A data.frame with at least the following columns:

  - 'indicator': number of "hits' per site, e.g. tested positive for
    malaria

  - 'samplesize': total population sampled at the site

  - 'x': x position, often longitude

  - 'y': y position, often latitude

- id_raster:

  [terra::SpatRaster](https://rspatial.github.io/terra/reference/SpatRaster-class.html)
  with non-NA pixels delineating the extent of the study area

- covariates:

  (list) Named list of all covariate effects included in the model,
  typically generated by
  [`load_covariates()`](https://henryspatialanalysis.github.io/mbg/reference/load_covariates.md).
  Only used if `use_covariates` is TRUE.

- use_covariates:

  (`boolean(1)`, default TRUE) Should covariate fixed effects be
  included in the model? If TRUE, includes fixed effects for all
  covariates in the `covariates` argument. If FALSE, includes only an
  intercept.

- covariates_sum_to_one:

  (logical, default FALSE) Should the input covariates be constrained to
  sum to one? Usually FALSE when raw covariates are passed to the model,
  and TRUE if running an ensemble (stacking) model.

- family:

  (`character(1)`, default 'binomial') Statistical family; used to link
  stacked covariates with outcomes

- use_spde:

  (`boolean(1)`, default TRUE) Should an SPDE approximation of a
  Gaussian process be included in the model?

- spde_range_pc_prior:

  (list) A named list specifying the penalized complexity prior for the
  SPDE range. The two named items are "threshold", the test threshold
  (set as a proportion of the overall mesh extent), and "prob_below",
  the prior probability that the value is BELOW that range threshold.
  The function automatically converts "threshold" from a proportion of
  the overall mesh extent into a distance.

- spde_sigma_pc_prior:

  (list) A named list specifying the penalized complexity prior for
  sigma (standard deviation) of the SPDE object. The two named items are
  "threshold", the test threshold for the standard deviation, and
  "prob_above", the prior probability that sigma will EXCEED that
  threshold.

- spde_integrate_to_zero:

  (`boolean(1)`, default TRUE) Should the 'volume' under the SPDE mesh
  integrate to zero?

- mesh_max_edge:

  (`numeric(2)`, default c(0.2, 5)) Maximum size of the INLA SPDE mesh
  inside (1) and outside (2) of the modeled region.

- mesh_cutoff:

  (`numeric(1)`, default 0.04) Minimum size of the INLA mesh, usually
  reached in data-dense areas.

- use_nugget:

  (`boolean(1)`, default TRUE) Should a nugget (IID observation-level
  error or noise) term be included?

- nugget_pc_prior:

  A named list specifying the penalized complexity prior for the nugget
  term. The two named items are "threshold", the test threshold for the
  nugget standard deviation, and "prob_above", the prior probability
  that the standard deviation will EXCEED that threshold. Only used if
  `use_nugget` is TRUE

- use_admin_effect:

  (`boolean(1)`, default FALSE) Should an IID random effect by
  administrative unit be included?

- admin_boundaries:

  ([sf](https://r-spatial.github.io/sf/reference/sf.html) object,
  default NULL) admin boundaries spatial object. Only used if
  `use_admin_effect` is TRUE

- admin_pc_prior:

  (list) A named list specifying the penalized complexity prior for the
  admin-level IID term. The two named items are "threshold", the test
  threshold for the standard deviation of admin-level effects, and
  "prob_above", the prior probability that the standard deviation will
  EXCEED that threshold. Only used if `use_admin_effect` is TRUE.

## Value

List containing the following items:

- "mesh": The mesh used to approximate the latent Gaussian process

- "spde": The SPDE object that will be used to fit the INLA model

- "inla_data_stack": The data stack to be passed to
  [`INLA::inla()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/INLA/man/inla.html)

- "formula_string": The formula specification to be passed to
  [`INLA::inla()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/INLA/man/inla.html)

## Details

Creates the formatted input data to be used by the INLA model. For more
information about penalized complexity priors, see Daniel Simpson's
paper on the subject:
[doi:10.1214/16-STS576](https://doi.org/10.1214/16-STS576)

## See also

[`fit_inla_model()`](https://henryspatialanalysis.github.io/mbg/reference/fit_inla_model.md)
[MbgModelRunner](https://henryspatialanalysis.github.io/mbg/reference/MbgModelRunner.md)
