# Run regression sub-models

Wrapper to run many regression sub-models using the caret package

## Usage

``` r
run_regression_submodels(
  input_data,
  id_raster,
  covariates,
  cv_settings,
  model_settings,
  family = "binomial",
  clamping = TRUE,
  use_admin_bounds = FALSE,
  admin_bounds = NULL,
  admin_bounds_id = "polygon_id",
  prediction_range = c(-Inf, Inf),
  verbose = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- input_data:

  A data.frame with at least the following columns:

  - 'indicator': number of "hits' per site, e.g. tested positive for
    malaria

  - 'samplesize': total population sampled at the site

  - 'x': x position, often longitude

  - 'y': y position, often latitude

- id_raster:

  [terra::SpatRaster](https://rspatial.github.io/terra/reference/SpatRaster-class.html)
  with non-NA pixels delineating the extent of the study area

- covariates:

  (list) Named list of all covariate effects included in the model,
  typically generated by
  [`load_covariates()`](https://henryspatialanalysis.github.io/mbg/reference/load_covariates.md).

- cv_settings:

  Named list of cross-validation settings, passed to
  [caret::trainControl](https://rdrr.io/pkg/caret/man/trainControl.html).

- model_settings:

  Named list where the name of each header corresponds to a model run in
  [caret::train](https://rdrr.io/pkg/caret/man/train.html), and the
  arguments correspond to the model-specific settings for that model
  type.

- family:

  (`character(1)`, default 'binomial') Statistical model family being
  evaluated. For Gaussian models, this function trains against the
  'mean' field; for all other families, this function trains against the
  ratio of 'indicator':'samplesize'.

- clamping:

  (`logical(1)`, default TRUE) Should the predictions of individual ML
  models be limited to the range observed in the data?

- use_admin_bounds:

  (`logical(1)`, default FALSE) Use one-hot encoding of administrative
  boundaries as a candidate feature?

- admin_bounds:

  ([sf](https://r-spatial.github.io/sf/reference/sf.html), default NULL)
  Administrative boundaries to use. Only considered if
  `use_admin_bounds` is TRUE.

- admin_bounds_id:

  (`character`, default 'polygon_id') Field to use for administrative
  boundary one-hot encoding. Only considered if `use_admin_bounds` is
  TRUE.

- prediction_range:

  (`numeric(2)`, default c(-Inf, Inf)) Prediction limits for the outcome
  range. Used when the predictions are in a limited range, for example,
  0 to 1 or -1 to 1.

- verbose:

  (`logical(1)`, default TRUE) Log progress for ML model fitting?

## Value

List with two items:

- "models": A list containing summary objects for each regression model

- "predictions": Model predictions covering the entire id_raster
